---
layout: post
title: The ultimate luggage storage guide for Cairns
date: 1990-01-01 00:00:00 +1000
city: Cairns
categories: Australia
---

Home to the Gimuy Walubara Tidinji people for more than 60,000 years, Cairns sits on Cape York Peninsula's east coast, believed to be the area where Australia's aboriginal people first arrived on the continent. Today, Cairns has a population of just over 150,000 people and is the fifth most populated in the state of Queensland.

Cairns is truly unlike anywhere else in the world, situated between the Great Dividing Range and the Coral Sea and surrounded by lavish rainforests; it offers unparalleled views you won't find anywhere else in the world. This city by the sea is recognized internationally as the gateway to one of the world's seven natural wonders and Australia's most beautiful treasures, the Great Barrier Reef.

The fourth most popular international tourist destination in Australia, Cairns sandy white beaches and breezy streets are as abundant in beauty as they are in history, culture, and excitement. The best way to fully immerse yourself in Cairns's many delights and explore the city, though, is to make sure you know where to store your luggage before you go. Continue reading below to find out where you safely stash your baggage for the day while you set about on your adventure in Cairns.

<div class="bg-light m-3 p-4 border rounded" markdown="1">
**Contents**
* TOC
{:toc}
</div>

## Luggage Storage at Cairns's Airports

Are you planning on flying in for your stay in Cairns? Then, as the only airport open to the public in the vicinity, the Cairns Airport is (most likely) to be your entry point into the city.

### Cairns Airport

The seventh busiest airport in the country, Cairns Airport, is an international airport conveniently located 7 kilometres (4.3 miles) away from Cairns Central Business District. In addition to offering seven direct international flights and seventeen domestic flights, the airport is the region's primary provider of general aviation services.

Cairns Airport sees more than 5 million travellers each year, with Terminal 1 serving International flights and Terminal 2 catering to Domestic flights. While you're there, stop in at one of the airport's several cafes, restaurants, bars, lounges, or bars. Or, take the opportunity to talk with a staff member at the Tourist Refund Scheme desk to assist you in claiming your tax refund for any Australian goods you purchase.

<div class="bg-light m-3 p-4 border rounded" markdown="1">
#### Are there lockers at Cairns Airport?

Cairns Airport offers its passengers a couple of options for storing luggage. The first option for baggage storage at the airport is the self-service locker bank by the [Car Park Service Kiosk](https://www.cairnsairport.com.au/travelling/airport-guide/airport-services/luggage-storage/){:target="\_blank"} in Terminal 2. The locker bank offers three different sized lockers, 24/7 self-service, and accept payment by cash only in denominations of $5 - $20 notes and 20c - $2 coins. For anything too large to fit into a locker, the Baggage Storage Room in the Wilson Car Park Service Kiosk can store items up to 2 metres x 2 metres x 2 metres.

LOCATIONS:

- Lockers - by T2 Car Park Service Kiosk
- Baggage Storage Room - in the Wilson Park Service Kiosk

COSTS:

- Small Lockers (75 cm x 33 cm x 44 cm) - $6 for 0 to 3 hours, $10 for 3 to 24 hours, $10 for each additional 24 hours
- Medium Lockers (75 cm x 33 cm x 61 cm) - $8 for 0 to 3 hours, $12 for 3 to 24 hours, $12 for each additional 24 hours
- Large Lockers (75 cm x 33 cm x 93 cm ) - $10 for 0 to 3 hours, $14 for 3 to 24 hours, $14 for each additional 24 hours
- Baggage Storage Room - payment via Amex, Eftpos, Mastercard, or Visa only; open from 4:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m. 7 days a week, price by quote

</div>

## Luggage Storage at Train Stations in Cairns

Home to several railway stations, most terminals in the city of Cairns are in dedicated use for the scenic tourism railway services. To find out how you can head out on the track less travelled without your luggage tagging along for the ride, continue reading below.

### Cairns Railway Station

Initially constructed in 1891, the Cairns Railway Station consists of two platforms serving two transport railway lines and two tourist railway services. Today, the station is incorporated into the Cairns Central Shopping Centre, with the parking areas sitting atop the railway platforms.

Catch a ride on the North Coast Line to Brisbane, or take the Tablelands Railway Line to Atherton Tableland for a day trip away from the city. And, for those who prefer to stay local, hop on the Kuranda Scenic Railway or the Savannahlander to explore the gorgeous area terrain from the comfort and luxury of a passenger car.

<div class="bg-light m-3 p-4 border rounded" markdown="1">
#### Are there lockers at Cairns Railway Station?

Unfortunately, there are no luggage lockers available at the station to store baggage. However, if you head across the street to the [Cairns Sharehouse](https://www.cairns-sharehouse.com/luggage-storage/){:target="\_blank"} and talk to the helpful staff at the front desk, you can safely stow your luggage away for a nominal fee while you spend the day riding the rails.

LOCATION:

- Not Available

COST:

- Not Applicable

</div>

### Freshwater Railway Station

A stop on the Kuranda Scenic Railway, the Freshwater Railway Station is the departure point for around 60% of the train's annual tourists. Located in the Cairns suburb of Barron, the station does not currently offer any commuter services to locals.

As recently as September of 2018, the Freshwater Railway Station underwent massive refurbishment efforts. In addition to extending the station platform, new improvements include better accessibility for differently-abled passengers and enhanced bus and car park facilities.

<div class="bg-light m-3 p-4 border rounded" markdown="1">
#### Are there lockers at Freshwater Railway Station?

Currently, there are no locker facilities or luggage storage options available at the Freshwater Railway Station. Once you get to the Cairns Railway Station, though, you can store your luggage at [Cairns Sharehouse](https://www.cairns-sharehouse.com/luggage-storage/){:target="\_blank"} or the Cairns Airport if you plan on staying in the city.

LOCATION:

- Not Available

COST:

- Not Applicable

</div>

### Kuranda Railway Station

Famous globally for its stunning tropical gardens and incredible historical prominence, the Kuranda Railway Station is perhaps one of the most photographed stations in the world. The heritage-listed station is surrounded by tropical flora and fauna native to the area.

The station provides visitors with free Wi-Fi, free parking in the village, and a fantastic gift shop where you can purchase local trinkets and artists' wares. Guests can also stop at the Kuranda Railway Tea Rooms for delicious refreshments in the unique, atmospheric setting.

<div class="bg-light m-3 p-4 border rounded" markdown="1">
#### Are there lockers at Kuranda Railway Station?
Unfortunately, no lockers or luggage storage services are presently available for public use at the Kuranda Railway Station.

LOCATION:

- Not Available

COST:

- Not Applicable

</div>

## Luggage Storage at Cairns's Stadiums

There's no shortage of quality sporting and event stadiums in Cairns, with eight facilities for the Australian Rules Football League alone. Whether you want to catch an incredible show at the convention centre or get into the game at Cazalys Stadium, there's something for every fan to sink their teeth into in Cairns.

### Cazalys Stadium

Located in the Cairns's suburb of Westcourt, Cazalys Stadium seats crowds as large as 13,500 people. Often utilized by the Queensland Rugby League, the Queensland Cricket Association, and the Australian Football League Cairns, the stadium is suitable for all manner of sport including cricket, rugby, Australian Rules Football, and soccer.

Since the venue first opened more than 40 years ago, Cazalys Stadium has provided locals and tourists alike with the chance to witness once-in-a-lifetime events and games. Formerly known as the Australian Football Park and the Bundaberg Rum Stadium, Cazalys Stadium is the largest oval stadium in the city and received its current name in honour of the iconic VFL superstar, Roy Cazaly.

<div class="bg-light m-3 p-4 border rounded" markdown="1">
#### Are there lockers at Cazalys Stadium?
The stadium does not currently offer any cloaking or luggage storage facilities for attendees. Instead, the Cazalys Stadium policy states that visitors refrain from bringing items that cannot fit underneath the stadium seats. However, the Cairns Airport is only a short ten-minute drive away, so you can safely store your luggage in the  [self-service lockers](https://www.cairnsairport.com.au/travelling/airport-guide/airport-services/luggage-storage/){:target="\_blank"} available there if you can find the time to stop by.

LOCATION:

- Not Available

COST:

- Not Applicable

See

</div>

### Cairns Convention Centre

The first regional convention centre built in Australia, the award-winning Cairns Convention Centre has wholly transformed since first opening its doors in 1996. As recently as 2020, the Centre underwent a $176 million expansion, including a third level and more meeting spaces.

Cairns Convention Centre consists of an arena, an auditorium, a banquet space, a plenary, and more than 20 meeting rooms, making it suitable for a wide assortment of events. As a matter of fact, the Centre is so versatile that in a single year (2014), the Centre held the Australian Tourism Exchange Conference, the World Buiatrics Congress, and the G20 Finance Ministers and Central Bank Governors Meeting.

<div class="bg-light m-3 p-4 border rounded" markdown="1">
#### Are there lockers at Cairns Convention Centre?
While the Cairns Convention Centre does not offer baggage storage, there are a number of hotels, motels, and hostels in the area that provide luggage storage to guests. And, even if you aren't staying nearby, you may be able to access baggage storage services by simply asking the staff at the front desk of the accommodation if they're available.

LOCATION:

- Not Available

COST:

- Not Applicable

</div>

### Barlow Park

Featuring an impressive capacity of 15,000 people, Barlow Park is more than just a stadium- it's an all-inclusive, multi-purpose sports venue. The park is comprised of an IAAF-standard track, two rectangular fields, long jump pits, a grandstand, and a variety of other amenities for visitors and athletes.

Barlow Park regularly hosts games for both the Rugby League and the Rugby Union, in addition to Australian Rules Football games, track and field events, and soccer. Barlow Park is also open for free casual public use from 4 p.m. to 7 p.m., Monday through Friday, so long as the facility isn't otherwise booked for activities.

<div class="bg-light m-3 p-4 border rounded" markdown="1">
#### Are there lockers at Barlow Park?
Unfortunately, Barlow Park does not currently offer cloaking services or luggage storage services for patrons. However, there are some storage facilities available for pre-scheduled events and athletes.

LOCATION:

- Not Available

COST:

- Not Applicable

</div>

## Luggage Storage at Tourist Attractions in Cairns

A laid-back tropical oasis, Cairns's glorious beachfront views make the city one of Australia's most scenic and relaxing destinations. Cairns's incredible natural wonders, like Kuranda and the Great Barrier Reef, are matched only by its unique markets, extraordinary cuisines, and lively art and culture scene. To find out where you can safely store your items while spending a day on the water, or a night out on the town, continue reading below.

### Kuranda

A cool escape from the sun and heat of the beach, the colourful mountainside village of Kuranda has been a favourite of tourists and locals alive since the early 1900s. First gaining popularity in the 1970s and 1960s as a bohemian hippie hideaway, Kuranda is known today for its quaint outdoor markets, gorgeous waterfall views, and up close and personal experiences with the local wildlife.

Take a ride on the Skyrail Rainforest Cableway and marvel at the vegetation below as you glide mere metres above the canopy. Do you prefer to stay on land? Then take the Kuranda Scenic Railway to explore the rainforest at eye level, without ever leaving the comfort of your train cabin.

<div class="bg-light m-3 p-4 border rounded" markdown="1">
#### Are there lockers at Kuranda?
While there are no official luggage storage services available in Kuranda, you may be able to store your baggage in local businesses. To find out more, make a stop at the Kuranda Visitor Information Centre and talk to the staff at the front desk.

LOCATION:

- Not Available

COST:

- Not Applicable

</div>

### Great Barrier Reef

Australia's Great Barrier Reef is the largest in the world, consisting of more than 3,000 coral cays and individual reef systems. As one of the most popular tourist destinations in the world, the Reef is visited by nearly 3 million people annually, generating around $5-6 billion for the country each year.

Covering more than 2,600 kilometres (approximately 1,165 miles), the Great Barrier Reef's 900 islands are so large that the Reef itself is actually visible from outer space. Currently, scientists believe that the Great Barrier Reef was first formed around twenty million years ago and that the first contact with the reef occurred approximately 40,000 years ago with Australian's aboriginal peoples.

<div class="bg-light m-3 p-4 border rounded" markdown="1">
#### Are there lockers at Great Barrier Reef?

Since the Great Barrier Reef is located in the ocean, you may have already guessed that no lockers are available for luggage storage. However, becauseReef Reef is only accessible through licensed tour or boating activity, and chances are you'll be afforded the opportunity to store your items before disembarking from the harbour.

LOCATION:

- Not Available

COST:

- Not Applicable

</div>
