---
layout: post
title: The ultimate luggage storage guide for Darwin
date: 1990-01-01 00:00:00 +1000
city: Darwin
categories: Australia
---

The capital city of Australia's Northern Territory, Darwin, or Garramilla, as it's known to the Larrakia people, is the smallest and most northerly of all the country's capitals. Home to just over 145,000 residents, Darwin is also the wettest Australian capital city. The city experiences regular heavy downpours, increased cyclones, and lighting storms during the wet season from late November to early December.

Darwin's brilliant oceanside views, vibrant history, and continuously flourishing culture make this city a true hidden gem. As the regional centre of the Top End, life in Darwin reflects its veritable patchwork of diverse residents and their cultures. It's no wonder that more than 1 million people visit and vacation in the capital city each year!

Do you want to fully experience the incredible array of restaurants, shops, and local artworks, that Darwin has to offer? Then, continue reading below to find out where you can safely store your bags or luggage for the day while you explore the city of Darwin.

<div class="bg-light m-3 p-4 border rounded" markdown="1">
**Contents**
* TOC
{:toc}
</div>

## Luggage Storage at Darwin's Airports

Darwin is currently served by one airport, two military airports, and a private airport. If you're flying into Darwin, though, then, more than likely, you'll be coming in through the Darwin International Airport. But, any history buffs and aviation enthusiasts will tell you that a visit to RAAF Base Darwin is well worth the short trek.

### Darwin International Airport

A short fifteen-minute ride from Darwin's Central Business District, the Darwin International Airport consists of a single terminal for international and domestic flights. The Darwin International Airport transports more than 2 million passengers in a typical year, serving as a critical transit point for international flights between Europe, Australia, and Asia.

The airport provides travellers with all manner of amenities, including a Qantas lounge, several bars, cafes, restaurants, and a shopping area that offers duty-free shopping. And, there are Travelex ATM services sporadically placed throughout the terminal, just in case you have to make any last-minute currency exchanges before hitting the city.

<div class="bg-light m-3 p-4 border rounded" markdown="1">
#### Are there lockers at Darwin International Airport?

Darwin International Airport offers [locker hire services ](https://www.darwinairport.com.au/when-you-arrive#:~:text=dispense%20foreign%20currency.-,Lockers,adjacent%20to%20the%20Terminal%20Building.) for luggage storage in the walkway shelter of the Short Stay car park, next to the Terminal Building. However, keep in mind that the lockers only accept American Express, MasterCard, or Visa credit cards as payment. The locker bank consists of four different sizes, small (39.5 cm x 95 cm x 58 cm; fits carry-on bags, backpacks), medium (39.5 cm x 95 cm x 87.5 cm; fits medium-sized suitcases), large (39.5 cm x 95 cm x 116.5 cm; fits large suitcases), and extra-large (39.5 cm x 95 cm x 176 cm; fits multiple bags, fishing rods).

LOCATION:

- In the Sheltered Waiting Area, east area of the Short Stay car park building

COST:

- Small Lockers - $12.00 for 0 - 24 hours
- Medium Lockers - $16.00 for 0 - 24 hours
- Large Lockers - $19.00 for 0 - 24 hours
- Extra Large Lockers - $22.00 for 0-24 hours

</div>

### RAAF Base Darwin

The heritage-listed Royal Australian Air Force Base Darwin, or RAAF Base Darwin, has operated as one of Australia's vital military airports since it first opened in June of 1940. Situated on 45 hectares (110 acres), RAAF Base Darwin's rich history is matched only by its iconic status.

The only capital city in Australia to be directly attacked by Japanese forces during World War II, Darwin's RAAF Base, and the city at large, underwent two air raids on 19 February 1942. Japanese troops in WWII explicitly mounted the second attack against the base executed from high altitudes and lasting for at least 25 minutes. After being rebuilt and put back into operation, the airport later served as a focal point for transport to support military operations during the war in Vietnam.

<div class="bg-light m-3 p-4 border rounded" markdown="1">
#### Are there lockers at RAAF Base Darwin?

Since it continues to serve as a military base, RAAF Base Darwin does not currently offer any cloaking or luggage storage facilities for the public to use on base. However, feel free to stop at the nearby locker bank at Darwin International Airport to store your luggage before you visit safely.

LOCATION: Not Available

COST: Not Applicable

</div>

## Luggage Storage at Train Stations in Darwin

Public transportation via railway in Darwin is, unfortunately, limited. However, the one available option is considered one of the best rail passenger experiences in the world.

### Darwin Railway Station

Darwin's primary passenger terminal, Darwin Railway Station, located 18 kilometres (11 miles) from the city centre, delivers passengers right to the heart of the city. Colloquially known as Berrimah Passenger Terminal, the terminus station opened in 2004 to accommodate its sole service line, The Ghan.

The Ghan, an immersive, experiential tourism passenger train, travels from Darwin to Adelaide and Alice Springs. Currently, despite being the only line using the Darwin Railway Station, the Ghan has often been described as one of the best passenger trains globally for its incredible amenities, first-class service, and fantastic scenic views.

<div class="bg-light m-3 p-4 border rounded" markdown="1">
#### Are there lockers at Darwin Railway Station?

While the station does not currently offer any storage lockers on-site, you may be able to stash your stuff at your hotel or hostel before you head out for the day. Just be sure to check in with the front desk to see if cloaking or storage services are available.

LOCATION:

- Not Available

COST:

- Not Applicable

</div>

## Luggage Storage for Darwin's Ferry Terminals

Host to one of the city's most significant tourism draws, the Cullen Bay Ferry Terminal provides public passage from Cullen Bay to Mandorah and the Tiwi Islands. Regularly departing from Darwin Harbour, the ferries are owned and operated by the ferry company, SeaLink.

### Cullen Bay Ferry Terminal

As the exclusive link from the mainland to the Tiwi Islands and Mandorah, the Cullen Bay Ferry Terminal serves as the home base for two SeaLink ferries. Hop on the ferry to Mandorah to arrive on the island in less than twenty minutes, or earn your sea legs on the gorgeous two and a half hour trip to the Tiwi Islands.

In Mandorah and nearby Wagait Beach, a relaxing weekend of camping, freshwater fishing, and saltwater fishing right on the beachfront awaits travellers. Or, venture further to the Tiwi Islands and discover the ancient islands of Melville and Bathurst, two large islands and nine smaller surrounding islands that were created at the end of the last ice age, more than 8,000 years ago. For thousands of years, the islands have remained inhabited by the Tiwi People, one of Australia's Aboriginal peoples, who offer visitors today a chance to experience their incredible culture for themselves.

<div class="bg-light m-3 p-4 border rounded" markdown="1">
#### Are there lockers at Cullen Bay Ferry Terminal?

Unfortunately, the Cullen Bay Ferries do not offer any luggage cloaking or baggage storage facilities for passengers. Instead, passengers of the Mandorah and Tiwi Island ferry services are asked to pack less than 20kg of personal luggage items and keep their things on them at all times.

LOCATION:

- Not Available

COST:

- Not Applicable

</div>

## Luggage Storage at Darwin's Stadiums

With eight different stadiums in its city limits, there's always an event to attend or a game to see in Darwin. Even without fielding a Northern Territory team in the national Australian Rules Football or National Rugby League competitions, the city is absolutely brimming with all manner of sports for athletes to participate in and for fans to sit back and enjoy.

### TIO Stadium

The Marrara Oval, or TIO Stadium as it's now known, first opened in 1991 as the area's primary field for Australian Rules Football. As the home field for the Northern Territory Thunder team, TIO Stadium is renowned for hosting wet-season games for the Northern Territory Football League. Additionally, the Marrara Oval hosts cricket and rugby games on a regular basis.

Also home to some of Darwin's most prominent entertainment events, the stadium can seat up to 12,500 people at a time, though it once held a crowd of 17,500 people for a football game in 2003. As the largest stadium in Darwin, the Marrara Oval has hosted legendary acts like rock and roll band AC/DC and singer/songwriter Sir Elton John.

<div class="bg-light m-3 p-4 border rounded" markdown="1">
#### Are there lockers at TIO Stadium?

Since TIO Stadium is not equipped with facilities to provide luggage storage or cloaking facilities for event attendees at this time, visitors should consider stopping by the [Darwin International Airport ](https://www.darwinairport.com.au/when-you-arrive#:~:text=dispense%20foreign%20currency.-,Lockers,adjacent%20to%20the%20Terminal%20Building){:target="\_blank"}to store their items in the lockers. Or, try checking in with the front desk at your lodging accommodation to see if storage services are provided.

LOCATION:

- Not Available

COST:

- Not Applicable

</div>

### Territory Rugby League Stadium

Recently opened to the public in May 2019, the Territory Rugby League Stadium is located at Waren Park within the Marrara Sporting Complex, not far from TIO Stadium. Boasting a 1,250 seating capacity and a 10,000 total capacity, the newly built stadium primarily caters to men's and women's rugby league training sessions.

The purpose-built stadium consists of three fields, four changing rooms for the athletes, on-site storage for clubs, more than 500 car parks, and facilities for food and beverage. Touted as "a stadium that is inviting for fans and players alike – from the fields to the facilities" by Australian Rugby League Commissioner, Professor Megan Davis, The Territory Rugby League Stadium is just the latest addition to Darwin's vibrant athletic scene.

<div class="bg-light m-3 p-4 border rounded" markdown="1">
#### Are there lockers at Territory Rugby League Stadium?

Unfortunately, the Territory Rugby League Stadium does not currently offer cloaking services or luggage storage services to the public.

LOCATION:

- Not Available

COST:

- Not Applicable

</div>

## Luggage Storage at Tourist Attractions in Darwin

As the bonafide epicentre of the Northern Territory's culture, history, and goings-on, Darwin is overflowing with extraordinary adventures waiting to be had. From the internationally recognized Mindil Beach Sunset Market to the endless activities in the Waterfront Precinct, Darwin has an attraction to suit every tourists' taste. Continue reading below to find out where you can store your backpack or luggage for the day and get down and dirty in Darwin.

### Mindil Beach Sunset Market

The Mindil Beach Sunset Market comprises more than 200 vendor stalls, offering an unparalleled variety of international and local wares, arts, services, and cuisines. Open 4:00 p.m. to 9:00 p.m. every Thursday and Sunday, from April to October; the market is the perfect place to enjoy a tropical evening set by the sea,

Famous for its massive selection of delectable Southeast Asian cuisines, the Mindil Beach Sunset Market has more than 60 food stalls operated by local and regional chefs. After dinner, with a view of the sun sinking into the waves of the Timor Sea, visitors can delight in the array of shows provided by performance artists, who regularly hold shows and exhibitions at the market.

<div class="bg-light m-3 p-4 border rounded" markdown="1">
#### Are there lockers at Mindil Beach Sunset Market?

Unfortunately, there are no storage facilities or lockers available for hire through Mindil Beach Sunset Market. However, because vendors are constantly changing, you may be able to find a storage stall in the market itself. For anyone not wanting to test their luck in the market, consider taking a short ride to [Darwin International Airport ](https://www.darwinairport.com.au/when-you-arrive#:~:text=dispense%20foreign%20currency.-,Lockers,adjacent%20to%20the%20Terminal%20Building){:target="\_blank"}to store your luggage in the locker banks there.

LOCATION:

- Not Available

COST:

- Not Applicable

</div>

### Darwin Waterfront Precinct

Smack dab in the centre of the city, the Darwin Waterfront Precinct is the all-in-one spot for some of Darwin's best dining, shopping, and attractions. Try a taste of Darwin and tuck into a piled-high plate of fresh oysters from Darwin's harbour at the Oyster Bar Darwin, or stop in at the Wharf One Food & Wine by the lagoon for some tapas. And, speaking of the Wave Lagoon, while you're in the area, catch some waves at the beachside oasis worry-free, as the 4,000 square metres pool is guaranteed to be crocodile and stinger free.

The Waterfront Precinct also lays claim to the seriously fun Aqua Park, a floating inflatable obstacle course that's sure to get the whole family involved in the thills. For lovers of art and nature, check out the Tropical Parklands on the waterfront, where the beauty of sculpture and street art seamlessly combine with the organic wonder of Darwin's lush gardens and parklands.

<div class="bg-light m-3 p-4 border rounded" markdown="1">
#### Are there lockers at Darwin Waterfront Precinct?

Visitors to the [Darwin Waterfront Precinct ](https://www.waterfront.nt.gov.au/lockers){:target="\_blank"}can drop off their luggage for storage at the locker bank by the Wave Lagoon for a small fee of $5.00. To hire a locker to store your bags, visit the kiosk between locker operating hours, between 10 a.m. and 5:30 p.m. Keep in mind, though, that you'll also need to provide a $5.00 holding deposit, but it is returned at the end of the day.

LOCATION:

- By the Wave Lagoon

COST:

- 5.00 for 10 a.m. to 5:30 p.m. , plus $5.00 deposit

</div>
