---
layout: post
title: The ultimate luggage storage guide for Perth
date: 1990-01-01 00:00:00 +1000
city: Perth
categories: Australia
---

A true gem of Western Australia, Perh is the capital and largest city in the state. As Australia's fourth-most populated city, Perth, lovingly known as the Fair City, is home to more than 2 million residents. Situated on the Swan Coastal Plain between Daling Scarp and the Indian Ocean, Perth is an urban seaside oasis just waiting to be explored.

Referred to as Boorloo by the Noongar, the Aboriginal peoples who have called the area home for more than 38,000 years, Perth is rich in history and has a distinct culture. Whether you spend a day hanging out at the WACA, watching a game of cricket, or spend the day lounging on the sandy beaches of Cottesloe, there's no shortage of incredible experiences to be had in Perth.

But, if you genuinely want to get hands-on with every sight and scene in Perth, in all its glory, then you first have to go hands-free. Continue reading below to find out where you can store your stuff while out and about, enjoying all that the Fair City has to offer.

<div class="bg-light m-3 p-4 border rounded" markdown="1">
**Contents**
* TOC
{:toc}
</div>

## Luggage Storage at Airports in Perth

Perth is home to several airports, both open to the public and military. Primarily, the city is served by the Perth Airport, centrally located near the city's central business district, and the Jandakot Airport, just on the edge of city limits.

### Perth Airport

A short 10 kilometres (6.2 miles) from the Perth city centre, Perth Airport is an international airport serving the Fair City and greater Western Australia. As the fourth busiest airport in the country, the airport sees, on average, more than 13 million passengers each year.

Perth Airport is comprised of four domestic terminals and three international terminals and offers a variety of services and amenities for travelers passing through.

<div class="bg-light m-3 p-4 border rounded" markdown="1">
#### Are there lockers at Perth Airport?

In addition to ATMs and a foreign currency exchange counter, the airport provides visitors with a children's play area, several airline lounges, shops, dining areas, and baggage storage.

LOCATIONS:

- International Terminal 1 - near the public Arrivals Hall, in the Short Term Car Park
- Domestic Terminals 1 & 2 - on the pathway between Terminal 1 and Terminal 2
- Domestic Terminals 3 & 4 - on the walkway between the Short Term Car Park and the terminal

COST:

- Small Locker - $12 for 24 hours
- Medium Locker - $14 for 24 hours
- Large Locker - $16 for 24 hours

</div>

### Jandakot Airport

Jandakot Airport in Perth, first opened in 1963, is considered Australia's busiest general aviation airport in terms of recorded aircraft movements. Also among the top ten busiest civilian airports in the country and largest airport training bases, Jandakot serves as a significant base of aviation for Western Australia.

Homebase to essential services like the Royal Flying Doctor Service and the Department of Environment and Conservation Forest and Bushfire Patrol, Jandakot serves various tenants. Currently, more than 900 people operate at over 65 businesses working in and around the airport, including ten flying schools, flying clubs, and more.

<div class="bg-light m-3 p-4 border rounded" markdown="1">
#### Are there lockers at Jandakot Airport?

Unfortunately, Jandakot Airport does not have options for luggage or baggage storage at this time.

LOCATION:

- Not Available

COST:

- Not Applicable

</div>

## Luggage Storage at Perth's Train Stations

Are you riding the rails through Perth? Continue reading below to find out where to safely store your luggage and keep you chugging along on your travels.

### Perth Railway Station

Perth Railway Station is the biggest station on Transperth's railway network, with more than 38,000 passengers walking its platforms each day. A part of the City Railway Station Complex, the station first opened in March of 1881 and was designated as a State Registered Historical site by the Western Australia Heritage register in 2001.

Located in the heart of Perth's Central Business District, Perth Railway Station has nine platforms serving nine sets of tracks both above and below ground. Furthermore, the station provides access to 15 bus routes throughout the Fair City.

<div class="bg-light m-3 p-4 border rounded" markdown="1">
#### Are there lockers at Perth Railway Station?

Visitors passing through Perth Railway Station can store their luggage by heading up to the Citiplace Rest Centre. Here, travellers can also take advantage of stroller hire services, shower facilities, parenting rooms, and other accessibility services.

LOCATION:

- Upper-level walkway of City Railway Station Complex

COST:

- $10.50 per day, per locker

</div>

### Elizabeth Quay Railway Station

The station formerly known as Esplanade, Elizabeth Quay Railway Station, serves the southern end of Perth's central business district. With only two platforms and two tracks, compared to Perth's other stations, the Elizabeth Quay Railway Station is relatively small.

Despite its small size, more than 11,000 travellers pass through the station each day on their way to either the Joondalup line or the Mandurah line services. Furthermore, Elizabeth Quay Railway Station also provides passengers with direct access to the bus services departing from the station and a food court.

<div class="bg-light m-3 p-4 border rounded" markdown="1">
#### Are there lockers at Elizabeth Quay Railway Station?

The Elizabeth Quay Railway Station does not currently offer any locker banks or other luggage storage options for travellers. But, if you catch the 380 bus, it will transport you to and from Terminals 1 & 2 at the airport, where you can safely store your baggage.

LOCATION:

- Not Available

COST:

- Not Applicable

</div>

### Fremantle Railway Station

Featured in the 2006 film _Last Train to Freo_, Fremantle Railway Station was first erected in 1881. The station sits about 18.7 kilometres (or 11.6 miles) outside of Perth's city centre and first served as a key hub for Western Australian gold miners.

Today, Fremantle Railway Station has two platforms servicing four tracks in addition to being a part of more than 20 bus routes. Restored to its original external facades in 2011, the station has been classified by the National Trust. It is also a member of the Heritage Council of Western Australia's Register of Heritage Places.

<div class="bg-light m-3 p-4 border rounded" markdown="1">
#### Are there lockers at Fremantle Railway Station?

Unfortunately, Fremantle Railway Station does not currently have any baggage storage facilities available for use. However, you can stop by the Maritime Museum nearby and use the locker banks there. Or, if you prefer, there's a Pack and Send on Cantonment Street that charges $10 a bag and is open most weekdays until 5 pm.

LOCATION:

- Not Available

COST:

- Not Applicable

</div>

## Luggage Storage at Stadiums in Perth

Perth offers all manner of athletic and entertainment event venues for locals and tourists alike to enjoy. And, as one of Western Australia's most visited cities, there's always more than just a fair share going on in the Fair City.

### Optus Stadium

Optus Stadium in Perth recently finished construction, opening to the public in January of 2018. Also known as Perth Stadium, the arena is the third-largest stadium in Australia and can seat crowds of more than 65,000 people.

The stadium uses repositionable seating to switch between oval-field sports and rectangular-field sports with ease. Optus Stadium is predominately utilized for cricket and Australian rules football, as home turf for Perth's two Australian Football League Teams, the West Coast Eagles and the Fremantle Football Club.

<div class="bg-light m-3 p-4 border rounded" markdown="1">
#### Are there lockers at Optus Stadium?

While there is some luggage storage for guests of Optus Stadium, it's only available to Locker Room ticket holders, and space is exceedingly limited. Optus Stadium does offer cloaking services and free pram storage at the reception lobby.

LOCATION:

- The Locker Room entrance, the cloakroom near the reception lobby

COST:

- Free for Locker Room ticket holders

</div>

### The WACA

Western Australia's "home of cricket," The WACA, is named from the initials of its operating company, the Western Australian Cricket Association. The WACA is the home territory of the state's Women's National Cricket League team, the Western Fury, and Western Australia's first-class cricket team, the Western Warriors.

The WACA's pitch is considered to be one of the bounciest and quickest pitches in the world, and has a remarkably fast outfield. As such, the WACA has hosted the most scores of 99 in Test cricket in the world, with an exceptionally high seven scores.

Also utilized for athletic carnivals, soccer, Australian rules football, international rules footballs, baseball, and rugby, the WACA is more than just an athletic arena- it also sees crowds at some of Perth's biggest rock concerts and has its own museum.

<div class="bg-light m-3 p-4 border rounded" markdown="1">
#### Are there lockers at The WACA?

Though the WACA doesn't currently offer storage facilities to its guests, recent construction proposals suggest that it's only a matter of time before luggage lockers are made available.

LOCATION:

- Not Available

COST:

- Not Applicable

</div>

### HBF Park

A stadium of many titles, including Perth Oval and Perth Rectangular Stadium, HBF Park is one of Perth's premier event venues. The Park is capable of seating audiences up to 25,000 people for concerts and up to 20,500 people for sport events, and once even held a crowd of 32,000 strong for an Ed Sheeran concert in 2015.

HPF Park is currently the home stadium of two rugby teams, the Western Force (rugby union) and the West Coast Pirates (semi-professional rugby league), and the Perth Glory FC (A-League soccer). Set to host matches in the upcoming 2023 FIFA Women's World Cup, the stadium is notable in Australia for being one of few with a standing terrace, affectionately known by fans as 'The Shed.'

<div class="bg-light m-3 p-4 border rounded" markdown="1">
#### Are there lockers at HBF Park?

At this time, HBF Park only offers storage services for mobility aids like walkers and wheelchairs. While there are no locker facilities made available by the Park, there are some nearby storage facilities like Koala Self Storage and National Storage Perth.

LOCATION:

- Not Available

COST:

- Not Applicable

</div>

## Luggage Storage at Perth's Tourist Attractions

From delighting in the incredible natural beauty of Kings Park and Botanic Garden to discovering the vast, dark history of Fremantle Prison, the Fair City is brimming with wonders to behold.

### Kings Park and Botanic Garden

Kings Park and Botanic Garden is the most popular tourist destination for visitors of Western Australia, inviting more than five million people per year to enjoy its extraordinary natural wonders. In addition to being one of the largest inner-city parks in the world, over 3,000 species of flora call the 400 hectares (988 acres) space home.

Celebrated worldwide for its cutting-edge sustainability efforts and unique conservation approaches, Kings Park is much, much more than a simple garden. The park allows visitors to fully immerse themselves in the rich Aboriginal and European history right alongside the modern cultural scene and avant-garde artworks and architecture.

Kings Park and Botanic Garden sit right on the edge of Perth's central business district, so fantastic restaurants, easy access to public transport, and all kinds of shops are only a stone's throw away.

<div class="bg-light m-3 p-4 border rounded" markdown="1">
#### Are there lockers at Kings Park and Botanic Garden?

Although there are no luggage storage areas or locker banks in Kings Park, visitors travelling by rail can leave their luggage a short ride away at the locker banks available at Perth Train Station Complex.

LOCATION:

- Not Available

COST:

- Not Applicable

</div>

### Cottesloe Beach

Perhaps the most iconic beach in Western Australia, Cottesloe Beach welcomes as many as 600,000 visitors each year on its white sandy shore. Cottesloe is less than a half hour's drive from Perth's city centre, only 14 kilometres (8.7 miles), and can easily be reached by train in 20 minutes or less from Perth Station.

Cottesloe Beach is a perfect place to spend the day surfing, swimming, snorkelling, and relaxing in the sun with the family. Known to the locals as Cott, the beach has been patrolled and maintained by Cottesloe Surf Life Saving Club since 1909, when Surf Life Saving Australia officially opened in 1909 as the first lifesaving club in the country. Visiting in March? Cott holds a See the Sculpture by the Sea exhibition, an annual outdoor art gallery where you can see huge works of art created by scultpors from around the country.

<div class="bg-light m-3 p-4 border rounded" markdown="1">
#### Are there lockers at Cottesloe Beach?

Unfortunately, there are currently no lockers or storage options for baggage on the beach. However, many hotels in the area offer free luggage storage services for guests, should you decide to spend the night in Perth.

LOCATION:

- Not Available

COST:

- Not Applicable

</div>

### Fremantle Prison

Recognized as a national heritage site, Fremantle Prison operated as a prison from 1855 until its closure in 1991. The prison is surrounded by high perimeter walls and made up of a network of underground tunnels, rows upon rows of cellblocks stacked four stories high, cottages previously used by the prison staff, and a gatehouse.

Constructed via convict labour using on-site limestone, Fremantle Prison housed female, male, and juvenile convicts. Additionally, during World War II, 'The Establishment' (as it's colloquially known) was partly sequestered by the Australian Defence Department to be used as a military detention centre.

Along with carrying out floggings and hangings, Fremantle Prison is also known for its history of prisoner riots and dramatic escapes. Today, though, it's home to backpackers in its hostels, guests of its tours, and patrons browsing the gift shop.

<div class="bg-light m-3 p-4 border rounded" markdown="1">
#### Are there lockers at Fremantle Prison?

To store your stuff while you explore the prison grounds, free of charge, stop by the tunnels area and speak with the clerk.

LOCATION:

- Tunnels area, & the front desk at the backpackers' hostel for those staying

COST:

- Free

</div>
